In the printed comments on today's text, the reference is made to Matthew 25 and Luke 19.
In Matthew 25, we have the illustration of the Talents, three slaves who received Talents,
one slave receives five, another two, and the third slave receives one Talent.
And in Luke 19, the illustration is about ten slaves with each slave receiving one minor.
These are all sums of money, you could say, Talents or the Minas.
Both illustrations were given some days before Jesus died, and they were given in different
places.
The illustration about the Minas was given in Jericho.
The illustration about the Talents, a Talents that Jesus gave to his apostles on the Mount
of Olives.
But there's a key point in each illustration that we'll focus on.
The slave in each account who did nothing with his Talent or his minor is described as
wicked.
That's a powerful denunciation for someone to be called wicked, particularly by the
master.
But to see how powerful it is, it Matthew, chapter 6, verse 13, Jesus refers to Satan
as the wicked one.
And Proverbs 107 says the name of the wicked will rot.
So that is a very strong term to apply to any human.
But why?
Why are these two slaves described as wicked?
Jesus didn't say they broke any of the ten commandments?
No.
But they did something that was extremely serious.
They failed to do something with the Talents or the Minas that they were given.
They were guilty of sins of omission.
In Jesus' parable, just to give you an example of the sheep in the goats in Matthew chapter
25, verses 41 through 46, you remember the account how the goats are condemned to everlasting
cutting off.
Not for doing something bad.
The Scripture says they didn't help Christ's brothers.
Again, it was a sin of omission, not doing something that they should have done.
It's also interesting to note that in Matthew's account, the Talents were given to the slaves
according to their ability.
So one received five, one received two, and the third one, one Talent.
Was the Master being partial?
No.
Not at all.
The account explains clearly the Talents were given to the slaves according to their ability.
So that was really being considered on the part of the Master, the way he apportioned the
responsibilities to work for his interest, to increase his belongings.
And you know that's a very comforting thought for all of us, to realize that Jehovah takes
into account what we can do, not comparing us with others in the congregation.
You have to be careful about feeling worthless or devalue our own worth because that can happen.
We can feel we just can't ever do enough to please Jehovah God, or there's just too much
going on.
No, we just have to do whatever we are able to do and give our best to Jehovah God.
And we never want to fall into the trap that the sluggish and wicked slave fell into.
If you recall the account, he started to criticize the Master.
I know that you reap or you haven't sowed.
I know that you do this or that, you're harsh.
He was really placing the blame on the Master for his own inactivity, for what he didn't
do.
But the Master turned the tables on him and he said, you say, I'm that way?
Well now, wicked slave.
And then he told them that he wasn't going to receive anything.
He was categorized as wicked.
So as long as we give our best, we give from the heart and Jehovah is going to bless us.
And there's another interesting thing, too, with the slaves.
The one slave that received five talents and the one that received two talents.
The one that received two talents gained two talents.
The one that received five gained five.
But the one that had two and gained only two didn't look at the one that gained five
and say, I can't do what he did.
I only received two talents.
No, he was just happy with what he had.
Isn't that a good lesson for us?
Be happy with you, with what you're able to do if you can reach out and do more?
Wonderful.
Do it.
But we don't want to start comparing.
I can't keep up with him or with her.
That's just a bad, bad idea that will not benefit anyone.
And what did the Master say to the slave who gained five talents, total of ten talents?
And that was a fortune in those days.
Well, let's see what the Scripture says, Matthew 25,
Matthew 25, verse 21.
And these are the words of the Master to the slave who gained five talents, verse 21.
His Master said to him,
Well done, good and faithful slave.
You were faithful over a few things.
I will appoint you over many things.
Enter into the joy of your Master.
What a reward from the Master.
But what did he say to the slave who gained only two talents, verse 23?
His Master said to him,
Well done, good and faithful slave.
You were faithful over a few things.
I will appoint you over many things.
Enter into the joy of your Master.
Same, same.
Isn't that what it is?
It was according to each one's ability.
The reward in each case was the same, the approval of the Master
and undoubtedly additional responsibilities.
But simply the Master is Jesus Christ,
the talents refer to the responsibility
that Jehovah gives to his anointed servants.
They have to preach and make disciples.
That commission was given to the anointed.
We have the other sheep.
We've got the responsibility to do the same thing,
but that illustration was directed truly to the anointed.
But there is a scripture that helps us to appreciate what we need to do.
And it's in Revelation, chapter 21 or 22.
Revelation, chapter 22, verse 17.
It's not directly connected to the talents,
but it does give us direction on what we all should do,
whether we're of the anointed or of the other sheep.
Revelation 22 17 says,
And the Spirit and the bride keep on saying,
Come and let anyone hearing say,
Come, well, that would be anyone hearing
we of the other sheep.
Because the bride, we know who the bride is,
the bride, the anointed, brothers of Christ.
And then it says, and let anyone thirsting come,
let anyone who wishes take life's water free.
Well, the Spirit says, Come.
Yes, indeed.
At Pentecost, Holy Spirit was poured upon 120 disciples.
They could go out and speak other languages.
They were sharing the good news, the hope with Jews
in Jerusalem at that time.
The Holy Spirit inspired men to write the scriptures.
Holy Spirit is behind the prophecies that we read in the Bible.
And the Holy Spirit is saying, Come, it doesn't it?
When you read a scripture to someone about the time of the end,
second Timothy three or other scriptures.
And they say, That's what's taking place today.
Come on, come.
The Holy Spirit is nudging, urging people
when they read God's word and they understand it
and they accept what it says.
It says, Come.
And what about the bride?
Well, the bride's been saying, Come, for a long time.
120 disciples Pentecost.
They went down, they preached in different languages
and they were saying to the Jews there, Come.
And then down through the centuries,
we know the few there may have been of the bride class,
did their best to serve Jehovah and honor him.
But in these last days is where it has really expanded
tremendously with the bride saying, Come, think about it.
From 120 disciples at Pentecost and preaching in one city
in this case, Jerusalem, the work of the bride
has increased to 8,220,105 disciples.
In 240 lands, has the bride been saying, Come,
absolutely.
And from one congregation at Pentecost,
you could call the 120 disciples a congregation,
to 118,016 congregations worldwide.
The master Jesus must be very happy,
joyful to see that his obedient slaves
have truly covered the earth with the kingdom message,
what a privilege we have to share in that work.